So far we've used GG Animate to make
animations of a few different types of figures, and we've used different
transition functions in those animations. There are a few additional visual
flourishes and tweaks that you can do with the animations, which we'll go
through partially in this video. One additional aspect of an animation
that you can control is the entering and exiting. And this will control how marks or
geoms on the GG plot will appear and disappear during the transitions,
the animation. So to explain the example that's
in the GG animate documentation, we can first revisit the box plot
of the number of cylinders in car engines against the gas mileage. We did this a couple of videos ago. We can create the animation of this by
transitioning across the cylinder variable but you see the animation is very
choppy and it's kind of boring. By adding different enter and
exit functions, you can specify the visual
look of these transitions. And there are quite a few different
enter and exit functions, which you'll find in
the GG Animate documentation. But with some experimentation and
following along with the different vignettes or the examples, you will
see how these different options work. And you can play around with them to see
what you think is visually most suitable and satisfying. Along with fading in and out,
you can also do what is called shadowing, which allows you to retain previous or
preview future frames of the animation. And you can see shadowing demonstrated
here with the figure that we generated earlier with the number of Democrats and
Republicans in Congress. What I've done here is use the shadow_wake
command and modified a few of the options to show you the shift in party
control of Congress across time. But including some additional frames in
the past so you can see it progressing. As you can tell, you can really
get into the weeds on this, and you can let your imagination
run wild with GG Animate. If you dig into the documentation,
you'll see that there are tools for providing even more detailed
control of animations. Different options for modifying labels and
some other possibilities. With the foundation here, you should be
able to interpret that documentation and make those adjustments if they seem
suitable for your own visualization. The last thing I'll mention here about GG
Animate is how to export your animations. The easiest way to do this is to save
the animations as animated GIF files, G-I-F files. And you can use the function anim_save, specify a .GIF filename and
input and saved animation object. And the animation will save to your
Our sessions working directory. And then you can then open it up
in a web browser if you want to. Or you can find some other use for it depending on what kind
of media you're preparing.